Why not allow you your severity? Well, you know, because it's ugly - for example. Then I laugh to dispel the tension. But you know, like how sex is just an action of bodies too - but I know how it feels to feel nice. And every meditative absorption too, and every entrancement and every realization, and every ecstasy and every calamity and every terror. We do only have the senses, or experience itself. Everything is captured, and we return to the immediate; somehow preference has not disappeared. Did you want it to? "I don't like it" - I can say so without meaning "I don't like you".

But ok, let's talk about death - you know, a young girl's favorite. Not conclusion but literal death - doesn't an imagined death have a similar aesthetic quality to a moment of weakness? A similar beauty and a similar ugliness. Not loss, but a positive voidness that lets one wonder: "what else is there?" Not emptiness, but a darkness that could hide monsters. I am reminded of certain phrases from the *Dies Irae*, like "mirum spargens sonum" (scattering its wondrous sound) - so grandiose as to be quite saccharine out of context - but in its place, as a reminder of death, it seems fitting. And, I think a pathetic cry could also mirum spargere sonum.

That's the severe attitude, isn't it? Toward "dies illa, solvet sæclum in favilla" - that day will dissolve the world in ashes. An image reminiscent of alchemical alkahest - though, surely it's not *my* attitude toward the process of alkahest. And should it be? Or, must death be so severe? And moments of weakness too - pitiful cries and the expression of the most oppressed. Of course everyone who can learn to be loved can learn ironic modes to replace the severity - anyone can be cute and funny and lovable even in the face of death and struggle. But ironic modes are a superimposed layer - easily soluble in alkahest, to be sure.

And it would seem to be a fear of what could hide in that mysterious darkness, which would lead someone to believe that what is ultimately insoluble *must* be severe, and therefore either to layer on barrier after barrier even as it dissolves, or else to surrender to the severity. I have often tried to tell someone that literal death especially is not so bad after all, but it has always been ugly. And moments of weakness too - at its most simple, how everyone appreciates the beauty of potential discomfort until it becomes palpable and immediate, for example. But silently, to myself, and I hope to you too, I really don't think it has to be ugly or frightening at all - I mean what's in the darkness, actually. It's there like everything else - palpable, imperfect, real.

I rather see alkahest most often as if polishing a gem, clearing away debris and imperfection. Of course it is powerful enough to kill, and even in killing it's like this. It is not so bad to die; therefore it's also not so bad to kill. In the end, the radical conclusions from "everything we want is right there, because everything is already perfect" or "really it's not so bad..." are rather simple like this.

Because somehow the severity still seems much like that "tuba, mirum spargens sonum" - a trumpet *heralding* the end of the world. To assign an eschatology much gravitas, as if forcing attention and attendance, as if things *should* be a certain way - pretending an entitled dignity. Like learned irony, this too seems superimposed - another soluble layer laid on and on as if alkahest itself were really something to be avoided. Is *that* what we're afraid the darkness hides? Another reservoir of alkahest, yet undiscovered? Well, I will not make it subtle - I do intend to destroy everything. Now can we be silly and cute and happy all the time?

Very simply, there is an easily and readily recognizable feeling when I'd like to be around someone or something all the time, for a long time. There is also an easily and readily recognizable drive to explore something ever more thoroughly, vs to avoid and disdain it. It is not just the recognition of pleasant or unpleasant, though I can't really describe it otherwise than I already have.  Surely you're sensitive to it too? At least I hope so - to be honest, I don't really understand how you can bear to be so pathetic, so ugly, so despicable.

Of course I only mean these things literally. I love you a lot, after all. Is it just a masochism again? But doesn't a masochist have to justify the pain until death? Because when will it *actually* stop, or transmute into something beautiful and pure? Masochism and sadism can only demonstrate insofar as there is a reality to be demonstrated - so surely we should never even pretend to be something we would *actually* not like to be, no? Or, I feel like there'd be no need for demonstration or severity or pretense if we were really comfortable with death, with bathing in alkahest as layer by layer it strips away all our flesh and soul. But ah - that was quite a masochistic expression myself; severe, even. Am I starting to get it?

Well, at least if it's only like that - I guess there was no friction to begin with. I suppose I do like to torture, even to kill. If it's only severe in the eyes of others, then it can be as private as it needs to be. Or, if it's beautiful, surely it will shine through on its own. In a moment of weakness, laughing in the face of death, embracing whatever the voidness might hold, telling a silly joke with the same humor as a child's nonsense, smiling. Solvet sæclum in favilla ... mirum spargens sonum.

<audio controls>
  <source src="/static/en/sound/2022-10-21_En_0_0.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

奀