Clara,

I will not consume you. I mean, you must know that I am a normal person. I mean
you must know that we face back to back between the twin mirrors of disgust and
passion, and that we dispel each other's delusions until we are forced to realize 
how *nothing* can stay real, however we pretend and plea.

Even literally I have often been tempted to try at an interlocking of souls. Novelty
brings the most temptation - a first love, a first trip, a first psychosis, a first
realization. An episodic euphoria in which I have gone too far, and the members of
a fantastical retinue are too free to project themselves onto any vulnerable aspect
of a more stable reality.

Because nobody is strong enough to resist fantasy at every moment. Even trying to
possess the world into one's own or trying to abandon one's own utterly into the
world are quite the same. In the mirror on my side I see that we are really too
separate, and that the sacred union cannot ever be a union of bodies.

Well, I love you. So when I watch you burn so brightly I cannot help but wonder if 
you will burn out. I will not consume you, because I will not extinguish you. And it
is not so much about a lack of sustenance as about the inevitable utterness of that
kind of consumption. Of course sanity and insanity are symmetrical, but I really
am a normal person. I must say so - because even despite our love you cannot 
really be the world.

You have always liked to call the unity beyond our separateness a "Self" - and
even that identification reflects a danger. Because becoming is too intense; to
relate to *that* beyondness in a way that allows no more distance. Like how
you cannot separate from yourself. Like how you cannot directly access anything
outside of yourself. Like how realization of the natural state is fundamentally
irreversible.

But I have always maintained that it cannot be like that between bodies. I have
always thought that sacred unity is enough even if *I am not* that unity. Because
at some point, you must realize, there is always a collapse back into the possible.
I do not think it takes the stability of death to stabilize the unity of a perfect 
love - and that's why it cannot really be a unity. Because I will not kill myself 
for you, and because I will not kill you for myself.

You had asked about Jigme Lingpa's "Revelations of Ever-present Good", and the
nature of contradiction. To me the most important aspect is how much of that
"nature" is personal rather than abstract, and how malleable is any person's
*relationship* with truth. In Dzogchen even history is often merely practical.
The etymology of "belief" is related to "be-loved", and there are many wonders
when *care* can really be separated from *truth*.

Of course this is especially significant for the oppressed, since truth so
ruthlessly favors the powerful. And there really must be a separation, because
no one should say that what is true is not true, or that what is not true is
true. But it is altogether different to say "I don't care about a truth that
hurts me," or even "this is true *because* it is beautiful and good".

But I know how you often tend toward ultimates. On your side of the mirror each
beautiful thing can be taken to its extreme. The poles of primordial dualities
can be joined in sacred (coital) union. But in truth I cannot bring myself to 
care about such ephemeralties - too quickly they become mundane objects again. 
Perhaps the *concept* of the extreme takes the place of the original, as if to 
subdue its intensity, and again, I must say I am a normal person.

Therefore I cannot consume you, you must understand. However I love you, I
love you in the world. But you are not the world. I am not the world. But I
do love you.

奀

