<audio controls>
  <source src="/static/en/sound/2022-10-04_En_0_0.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

Clara,

Sorry it has been a while. I have been refusing to think about you, but thoughts of you cannot but tempt me at intervals. Yes, I am scared. But why must you highlight it as a fear? It’s not like you have never felt as I feel. I wrote this poem a few years ago:

> *solve*
> 
> That not-to-know is a place of hiding. Incompleteness coming before an acknowledgment of simultaneous so and not-so, in which both disappear into the ? of meaning.
> 
> And that nirvana is as scary as they say, the revolt against its witnessing as natural as the impetus away from what came before. That defense of “I don’t know I don’t care,” which even I don’t remember when and wherefore disappeared, into the ? of no-meaning.
> 
> *et coagula*
> 
> I don’t remember if this was the gateway to wonderland, terrible nothing leading alike to death and paradise. If paradise, it was only paradise-in-the-mirror—invisible, hinted at, even now unclear.
> 
> But here I am now, seeing clearly, cruelly seeing That as not-where-I-am. And I am often tempted to extend my hand through the mirror which distorts me into a monster, laughing at the world-serpent Ouroborous, coiled oh-so-ridiculously around its own happy end.

And now I feel *you*, as if hand extended, as if inviting with a tug, or dragging, and at least I am unprepared. Inevitably our love reflects other loves, and even that reflective surface is an obstructive membrane, another defense of the fortress I’ve constructed too fast to “resist you”. Water overcomes fire, which generates earth. And I have not seen enough of you to know if where you are is good, after all.

Have you ever been on the other side of that not-to-know yourself? Really my favorite genre is closure letters, because there is a lucidity in the aftermath which cannot be had in the heat of things. In truth I imagine utopia serene. I do not revel in the intensity of my letters, but wish that they would be made obsolete. But even futility is an obsolescence - and even I am not yet ready for futility. Only what is beginninglessly worthless is best.

Because whenever I have possessed I have realized that what I wanted could not have been a possession. And whenever I have consumed I have realized that what I wanted could not have been a consumption. If you understand me thoroughly… *why must we go further?* I have tried to drag others to a point, and not indefinitely in a direction. You must know that I cannot well tolerate infinities - maybe that is the crux of it. To me, we are only *something* - and we must become neither a totality nor a void.

You are right that I am performing “for an audience of souls sick as ours, as if anyone could know this sickness”. I have heard that almost all souls are as sick as ours, and I somehow still hope that even within a lifetime there will be many who can know it - even publicly, and even to themselves. Must I oppress in order to escape oppression? But whenever I have oppressed I have realized that what I wanted could not have been an oppression. When you never resist me, I realize that I somehow needed that resistance after all - because now I am lost.

Because in a serene utopia there would be no need for resistance - because there would be no need for oppressive action. It is toward that ultimate where even the concept of imposition disappears, which I think is really closer than many would believe. Because if we are really to love each other in a way where resistance disappears, we must not resist the world. Because it cannot be us against them when “against” itself has been annihilated so utterly.

So no, I cannot be resisting you. But if you perceive an obstruction, then let us tear it down. Let us solve everything with magic alkahest, until there can be no distinction between us and the world. But you must know we cannot isolate ourselves - surely I will dissolve that isolation. Look a little deeper into the mirror and you will see that really I am even more total than you. I want to invite you to step through again until we are really pure.

Of course this is harder than fantasy. Of course it is always harder to actualize something with total scope than to perform the same virtually. But if we really never resist each other, then in the course of our total dissolution perhaps we shall lose many beloved things. Would you be okay with *only* love, if there is no fate, no hope, no meaning?

奀