Clara,

You are quite a masochist, aren't you? Of course it is much more de Sade than Lacan. I mean that it is a masochism of excess rather than of deprivation. Though, we cannot avoid how excess deprives because it kills, and whenever there are other total constraints like energy or possibility. It is like an exaggeration of Dorje Tröllo's oaths:

1. "Whatever happens; may it happen" becomes "Whatever happens; may it happen unto its conclusion".
2. "Whichever way it goes; may it go that way" becomes "Whichever way it goes; may it go unto that extreme".
3. "There is no purpose" becomes "May I suffer unto death".
   
Because of course you will suffer a little, and maybe especially without asserting yourself *against* you will suffer a lot. But we can not flee, and we cannot resist, and we cannot violate. Yet we are tempted to anticipate; and how will we relate to that anticipation?  So *may* we suffer. But maybe we cannot really bear it. So *may* we suffer unto death.

In the I Ching there are two hexagrams about excess: 大过 and 小过 - big excess and little excess; but James Legge translates them "preponderance of the great" and "preponderance of the small". Still, in "过" there is undoubtedly the sense of infraction. 小过 is thunder above, mountain below; 大过 is lake above, wind below - why, when thunder and mountain would seem immediately the more majestic and more terrible? What great infraction could there be in lake above wind, especially when lake is also the trigram of *joy*?

It's rather simple with 过 as "preponderance", as the 彖 commentary favors; 大 is yang and 小 is yin, so 大过 is just the one with more solid lines and 小过 the one with more broken lines. But there is another angle - the 象 commentary clearly suggests the other meaning of 过 as excess, and there is paradoxical tension between the meanings suggested by the two senses of "过".

The thematic image of 大过 is a beam. Its main text is "大过栋桡利有攸往亨" -  big excess; a weak beak; beneficial to have somewhere to go; developmental. The thematic image of 小过 is a bird in flight. Its main text is "小过亨利贞可小事不可大事飞鸟遗之音不宜上宜下大吉" - little excess; developmental, beneficial upright; little affairs but not big affairs acceptable; the notes that come from a bird in flight; more proper to descend than ascend; great auspiciousness.

The top line of 大过 is "过涉灭顶凶无咎" - exceedingly crossing a stream, covering the head completely; inauspicious; no blame. The top line of 小过 is "弗遇过之飞鸟离之凶是谓灾眚" - not meeting but exceeding; as a flying bird departing; inauspicious; called calamity and error.

Hopefully this is more relevant to experience. Wind is also interpreted as wood. Thorough and penetrating, touching every crevice. It blows away every loose leaf, indiscriminate. It expands until its death.  Lake, as *joy*, is not necessarily an ultimate kind of joy. The 兑 hexagram speaks of induced and imported joys, inauspicious. The enjoyment of addiction, or of being seen as good without having good qualities. You are prone to the failures of "great excess", are you not? The failure of a weak beam - thoroughly penetrating, pervasively supporting, but in a moment exceeding, drowning, inauspicious but without blame. Developmental with somewhere to go, or else floundering... a tree or wind under a lake, drowning in pleasure. Suffering an ecstasy unto death.

Comparatively, the little excess is rather mild. A superficial infraction, perhaps committed unaware. So transient that of course it must be severe if it is to be an infraction at all. A bird in flight's terrible song, far behind the bird, its consequences unwitnessed, irrelevant as long as she keeps flying. The bird's infraction itself carries her away by its excess. A departure. An escape. No death, little suffering.

But all your excesses are great, aren't they? You can't bear to descend, even to great auspiciousness. You cannot bear to be the mountain below thunder. Or, you are reluctant to take flight. You will not depart. There must be again and again a recurrence. A recurrence like a great cyclic wind - like the self-sustenance of a tornado or hurricane. The thunderstorm rages then passes just as quickly. But you refuse - you must suffer unto death.

Isn't it excessive, after all? My love, my very dear - I just want you to be happy, after all. There's no need for the divine. There's no need for the perfect. Is possibility so cruel that we cannot bear the world except at its extremes? If we can tolerate even the extreme, can't we surely tolerate the intermediate? The future and the past do not need to be united. Here and there do not need to correspond. I cannot help but think you have suffered too much.

Even for my sake, won't you descend from death? I cannot protect you, but I cannot bear to torture you, even as a perfect sacrifice. I cannot be saved by your blood - and it all seems wasted. So won't you just stop suffering, after all? Well, what are we to do about *all* the suffering? What are we to do about others? It cannot be nothing - but even everything is not enough. I cannot bear for you to die a martyr's death, because I know your blood is worthless. If it's worthless to me, who can find it more valuable? Therefore don't bleed anymore...

My name 奀 is the characters "不大" - not big, great, not vast. 天 is sky or heaven, a line above 大. 下 is downwards, or descent, a dash removed from 不. Won't you follow my descent from the sky, or from heaven? Won't you be content within the small, even if we must make many infractions? There are so many patterns and so many things, but I cannot pretend to grasp their unity. There is nothing sad in this. Look away from God's face and you will see that a godless sunset is beautiful too, even if you forget the Face behind you. Because limitless light (ain soph aur, or 无极) has no polarity and no direction. Because God's face cannot have a shape, but only shapes can entrance and captivate. Look away from wherever you are looking, and you will find that there is no darkness. Refuse the idolatry of children, and the oppression of the blind.

Many things are not so profound after all, and many cycles are really spirals, their self-intersection illusory upon a further glance. Is there experience because there is a "self", or is there a "self" because there is experience? Dialetheism is a matter of perspective, because Truth is a sign, and revelation an experience. But of course then we return to the domain of power. You know the parable about the rain of toxic water that made anyone who drank it insane? At first the poor without access to protected reservoirs have to drink it, and go insane. The rain continues for years until only the king has access to clean water; and the whole kingdom is now in agreement that actually the king is insane. It's much like the ship of Theseus, isn't it?

And imagine the process backwards. The ship of Theseus in time reversed. It is sensible to imagine, just as a world of ever decreasing entropy often is, but of course we know the process cannot *really* be reversed just like that. You know that the symmetry of mind-blindness is collapsed by the arbitration of power, and that actuality cannot be disentangled from hegemony. Do you remember thinking as a child, "I have to remember this feeling of oppression, because I will not be able to become a child again after I grow up"? Because there *is* a directionality to process after all. So what are we to do when the arbiters of truth declare: "We understand you, but you you are wrong. You could sensibly say just the same of us, but you are wrong, because we are strong enough to always be right without blame"? A diagnosis of insanity, an acknowledgement of symmetry, an implicit arbitration by power backed by the possibility of an explicit arbitration by power.

But really it's not so bad... even without fleeing from *their* metaphysics. Really there is no need to oppose nor to isolate. Because if duality is the root of evil, then you mustn't make yourself dual. This is possible without pretending, and without oppressing. Because remember how it is all just experiences - the *experience* of oppression, the *experience* of truth, the *experience* of the world. Omniscience could just be the capacity to know anything you would like to know. Omnipotence could just be the capacity to do anything you would like to do. But we must avoid the twin dangers of centering the world too radically on a self, and of expanding a self too radically into the world, especially a fantasized world constructed as an extrapolation of experience, rather than the world as limited experience itself.

Do not suffer for the world. Do not suffer unto death. Do not try to love beyond *your* love. A lamb is slain and eaten. A little later we are hungry again.

奀