Clara,

Sorry, but before we are happy, I would like to address (create) two more frictions, one little and one grave. The little friction is as simple as, "if we are already so close, what is there left to talk about?" But the grave friction is an exaggeration of that, until we have lost *humor*. Because where is humor without surprise, indeed without friction? Or, it is how I cannot bear how perfect you make me, how I would rather be a faerie than a god.

And, maybe the little friction is simple. Today I was enjoying the similarity between the transitional section with a theme passed between high and low strings in Dvorak's *Requiem* right after the majestic "et tibi reddetur votum in Jerusalem" and the passing of the theme between orchestra and soloist in Botessini's *Concerto in B minor* for double bass. Yesterday morning I was thinking about how Steve Reich's use of "phasing" such as in *Piano Phase* emphasizes how it's really just an exaggerated compression of fugal stretto in perfect canon, like how rhythm and pitch have the same unit of measure, and I was exploring the application of other fugal techniques to a scale perceived as timbre rather than as tone. Then in the afternoon I was surprised at how much my 楷书 improved from practicing 草书, I suppose because 草书 highlights the more abstract aspects of form contributing to structural integrity and visual harmony more effectively than analysis on a 米字 grid. I was reminded of a line from Richard Hamming's *The Art of Doing Science and Engineering*, though I forget what. I also remembered a prophetic thought I'd had while writing a previous letter to you, about how Hamming's book would become relevant, which I dismissed as nonsense at the time - or maybe it was only a feeling of deja vu.

How many of these things are relevant to you too? Maybe I have gotten too technical. And tomorrow I will surely be thinking of something else again. Sometimes I feel lonely for having gone too far but not far enough - mundanely, the loneliness of the upper middle. Simply, needing to experience more than any random person could be expected to experience, but not enough to be motivated to associate with experts. So I am just like everyone else - it is mundane and not an existential loneliness. But, since everyone else is just like me, what else could "existential" loneliness be?

And, do you not realize, it *is* your art after all which cannot deceive. Because I must wonder, "why are they so *severe*?" To put it more tragically, it is your flowers which I know I cannot forever bear. It was not until fairly recently that I realized how my love letters *hurt* to receive. Perhaps that is why I can love you especially, who can bear that pain, and even seem to find it good. Well, this would seem a more existential compatibility. And from your side, well, at least I have always expressed a fondness for "schizo geniuses", as I would say. I do enjoy a ceaseless hunger, even romantic struggle.

But your vision, after all, which you have shared through art. Surely I have not devoured you, and insisted I would not consume you, because I think I could not bear to see through your eyes. I like cute things. I like the absurdity of children better than saints. As the sun sets, or as the world ends, let's hold hands giggling innocently rather than cackling like maniacs with a grin as if hiding darkness. I will be smiling because I enjoy the warmth of your hand in mine - a gentle smile.

There is nothing you need to do for me, but to *enjoy* with me. A too-thorough enjoyment, perhaps, breaching beyond the mundane. A ceaseless hunger? Unwavering sights? Why so severe again, after all? Finality, drowning, victimhood, "may actually require the violence"... but can't I just hold you tenderly? A violence as if to reveal, to reverse, to relish. This is the grave friction.

Because even as you are aware of a pretense, you have given yourself to it too thoroughly. Someone asked me once, "have you ever known a schizo who couldn't just stop being schizo?" Well, I don't know. I don't especially care. The discernment between "pretending" vs being forcibly compelled without will or awareness is the very discernment between insanity and genius, but only because to pretend is just to be aware that you *could* be pretending. Therefore, it is just to have an answer to "why are you pretending?", and therefore to "how else could we be?"

But if you have an answer, why answer so *severely*, after all? Why not answer in a cute and cuddly way, as a joke, having more fun than ever? Because *that* is how else we could be, and pretending. We could pretend to be perfect, toward an actual perfection, that is, toward what we'd really prefer. Because another pretense will not destroy itself - because ugliness is more avoided than attacked. It is not as if I am loving you as an act, as if instrumentally, for "realization" or whatever else. It is true that I am pretending - but only just as as I am always pretending, as real as any reality, or any realization.

I will not promise toward eternity, because I am only a performer, not a playwright. Again and again I will refuse to grasp at illusory wholes. Too often I have suffered for entering too far into a private reality co-constructed with someone quite isolated, or which they prepared long before me. Shattering and shattering again, radiantly - a giggle, a child's play. Until there is no pretense, because there is no separation between pretense and reality. Because everything we want is right there, because everything is already perfect. Even from the first act, there is nothing *left to do*, or else you would be preparing for a lifetime, longer than I can spare.

En

<audio controls>
  <source src="/static/en/sound/2022-10-15_En_0_0.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>